JEP draft: WebSocket Services (#250)
jenkinsci/jep: jep/0000/README.adoc

= JEP-0000: WebSocket Services
:toc: preamble
:toclevels: 3
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

.Metadata
[cols="1h,1"]
|===
| JEP
| 0000

| Title
| WebSocket Services

| Sponsor
| link:https://github.com/jglick[Jesse Glick]

// Use the script `set-jep-status <jep-number> <status>` to update the status.
| Status
| Not Submitted :information_source:

| Type
| Standards

| Created
| 2019-11-21

| BDFL-Delegate
| TBD

|===

== Abstract

Jenkins offers an API allowing WebSocket services to be implemented.
This is available using the Stapler `HttpResponse` idiom,
served as the final action after the regular Stapler routing mechanism.
Unlike regular HTTP endpoints, bidirectional streaming communication is possible.

The principal service exposed in this way is a new Remoting transport for inbound build agents at an HTTP(S) URL.

> The agent itself (typically named `slave.jar`) includes a WebSocket client capable of connecting to this endpoint.

Reviewer: I think the Jenkins project is trying to move people to use `agent.jar` instead of `slave.jar`.

Author: Yes, the current launch script in the Docker image reflects the rename. I will update this accordingly.

This provides an alternative to using the `JNLP4-connect` protocol on the Jenkins TCP port.
Otherwise the regular behavior of inbound agents (`JNLPLauncher`) applies.

The Jenkins CLI could also be served via WebSocket in place of the SSHD port or the problematic “full-duplex HTTP” transport.

The implementation relies on APIs avalable in the built-in Jetty (“Winstone”) servlet container,

> but Jetty APIs are not reëxported to plugins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but Jetty APIs are not re-exported to plugins.
```

Author: Either is valid; I am using the older notation.

Reviewer 2: True, but the newer form would be more recognizable and readable to more people.
